[Music]
good day ladies and gentlemen welcome to
draw with jazza I'm jazza and in this
video we're going to be talking about
copyright and intellectual property in
application specifically to artists and
graphic designers animators and things
of the creative Spectrum now before I
begin I want to just put out a
disclaimer that I am not a lawyer I
haven't got a law degree this is just a
very Sur level approach to copyright
intellectual property from an artist and
an animator but I've also had some
limited experience in producing group
works and collaborations and have had
some discussions with lawyers from time
to time to get advice on how things are
to be structured and also done a bit of
research specifically for this video to
try and make it as simple and
approachable to the new artist as
possible so we'll begin with a couple of
definitions copyright refers
specifically to something that actually
has been created and the right to
produce or perform or print or share or
monetize that piece of tangible
something so an application to myself
and most people watching this video that
can apply to your artwork your music
your games your animations and so on
intellectual property refers to the
intangible so things like stories
characters and Concepts it's
intellectual so it's in your mind and
property it's stuff that belongs to you
so let's start off by talking about
intellectual property this is before
you've made anything or before something
is a tangible product from time to time
we get an idea this idea could eventuate
to become nothing the idea could also
eventuate into big money big results and
big audiences and wherever there is Big
Money big results and big audiences
there are people wanting a bigger piece
of the pie so if you've got the idea
that you think is going to be the next
big thing it's best to be wise just to
avoid being thrown under the bus or
burned later down the line now the
simplest most straightforward way things
can eventuate is if the idea is your own
and you produce the result on your own
therefore from concept to finish
everything is owned by you and it's all
very clean and very simple sometimes
however you might have an idea that's a
little larger than you yourself can
produce and that's okay you can still
own that idea and get help to produce it
you just need to know how to go about it
so that you safely retain the ownership
of the intellectual property and that
there are clear guidelines in place for
those who are working on the project
knowing what they get for helping you
make your idea come to fruition and for
you ensuring that you have all the
security that you need to know that your
idea uh and the result of it is safe in
your hands now the best way to do this
is to use a written contract now of
course contracts get a bit complicated
because then there are all these issues
of loopholes and so to make a secure
contract you want a lawyer and you want
it to be drafted properly and then of
course that costs money so if we're just
kind of amateurs and we're starting
something fresh and where we're not
really in that realm of things yet
that's okay you're still protected if
there is evidence of an agreement
between you and the other parties so for
example email exchanges or Skype
conversations between you and the
parties you're hiring to help produce
your idea are all very valid evidence of
an agreement or contract uh put into
place for the production of your concept
there's even such a thing as a verbal
contract where if you have a
conversation with someone and form an
agreement in conversation that actually
applies as a contract now of course you
want evidence of that having happened
and sometimes you might need to back
that up if things get messy later down
the line so recording conversations is a
good way to do that uh otherwise email
conversations is the safest cleanest way
to do it without any lawyers involved
and of course having lawyers and
contracts involved can make things feel
like there's contention when there
actually isn't so first of all that's
something to kind of learn to get over
as you become more professional
contracts are sometimes a very necessary
part of the production process but also
having very clear evidence of
conversations that you've had in the
past in writing is a perfectly fine way
to establish the contracts that have
been decided on the best example I can
think of that I have from my own
experience is when I produced the Larry
Series so this was a series that was my
own intellectual property all the
characters and ideas and story were my
own but I needed help to make it happen
I needed a musician and a sound designer
sometimes a background art artist and
when I produced video game content I
also needed a coder so in those
situations I spoke with the people I
wanted to collaborate with and we
established a deal as to how much they
wanted to get paid or what percentage of
Revenue that they would get but that was
what they got in exchange for their work
they didn't retain any of the
intellectual property so if I in the
future wanted to do any marketing or
make a Larry t-shirt I have the right to
do that but they don't because they had
a very specific role and remuneration
for a very specific project that ended
then now when there's more than one
person involved in the creation of an
idea or the intellectual property things
get a little bit more complicated the
best way to protect the interests of the
people involved in developing the
intellectual property is to have a very
clearly defined business structure and
then also contracts help that as well a
very common and straightforward way is
to establish what's called a partnership
that's where you and one or more people
all claim equal ownership over the
intellectual property as a result of
this the ownership of the intellectual
property and then future ownership of
copyright and revenue is distributed
evenly amongst all members of the
partnership there are of course other
ways to establish ownership of
intellectual property whether it be
through a business or a company but
that's all getting uh very convoluted
and a little bit off topic so just to
keep things simple we'll keep the
explanation to uh that for now so long
story short when you form an idea
whether on your own or with someone else
you want to make sure that there is
evidence of its initial creation and
then any agreements that need to be made
should be made in something of a way
that can be looked back on or be used in
future if it need be used in future and
if you have any concerns or are in any
doubt go to a lawyer you can get some
free consultations as well sometimes so
you don't have to be totally out of
pocket just to get a little bit of
advice otherwise the most important
thing to keep in mind is to have a
really strong foundation so that
everything else from there goes smoothly
and evenly a word of advice regarding
intellectual property it's often
difficult to prove origin or ownership
of intellectual property before have
been fully formed or uh any structure
properly made so I would advise people
to be quite careful with their ideas and
not spread them to anyone else who might
have the ability to produce the ideas
into a result separate to you because
that can cause some issues obviously
Facebook case in point so there are
things called non-disclosure agreements
or confidentiality agreements where you
can essentially protect the
conversations early on that you have
with someone by making sure that the
idea that you're sharing with them is
first protected before it's shared so
next we're going to talk about copyright
copyright law is there to protect things
that are physically manifest in a fixed
material form an example of the
difference between intellectual property
or IP and copyright is The Simpsons
where the intellectual property belongs
to the creators but the copyright is
granted to a television network that can
then display and distribute the content
and there are different forms of
copyright for different things so so
with the example of The Simpsons there
would be copyright for the television
broadcast there would be a very
different copyright contract for uh the
movie that they made and then of course
merchandise is a completely separate
thing as well lots of different forms of
copyright to distribute the rights
pertaining to that intellectual property
of The Simpsons so first things first a
common question asked is how do you get
copyright well if you made it copyright
is automatic you own the copyright if
you produce the content if you made the
artwork you painted the picture you made
the song you own the copyright digital
copyright however is the most difficult
thing to enforce the internet is a big
place your ability to govern what people
do with your copyrighted content is
extremely limited so for example anyone
who knows of Beyonce's performance at
the Super Bowl producing some
embarrassing photos that her publicist
wanteded removed from the internet the
result was the internet going crazy and
making them go very viral so often uh
your attempts at controlling the
internet can backfire now even if your
request is legitimate and someone is
abusing your content why is it so hard
to control two things come to my mind as
to why it's difficult to control one is
that it's financially unreasonable to
try and quell the uh non-commercial use
of your copyright content because if
they're not making money from it then
it's kind of pointless for you to spend
money to stop them abusing it the second
reason is that even if your work is
being used without your consent for
commercial gain it's usually done
somewhere else on the planet and to
enforce uh legal ramifications from your
end of the globe to wherever it is that
it's being abused can be quite difficult
unless you have the money to do it
that's why in most cases where it is
done it's done with companies that have
the money to do it and are also scary so
people stop mostly so if you make
content specifically digital content
where you make something available for
people and you can't govern what they do
with it the best counter measures that
you can make in my opinion are to
produce quality content be very clear in
your communication and to not treat your
audience like a bunch of idiots by
overpricing or making something
difficult or convoluted because then it
will just be open to abuse my personal
experience so far has been 99%
reciprocal every time I try very hard to
make something for people to enjoy and
sometimes uh ask for a little bit in
return it's all been fine because in
return people feel like there's a
two-way relationship happening there
some of the best received and even
sometimes most lucrative business models
are things like valves steam the game
distribution program and Netflix uh
they're great examples because in an
environment where people are very used
to pirating and taking what they can for
free while they can still do that they
prefer the option because it's more
convenient and it's reasonably priced
why would you pirate something when you
can support the industry and get what
you want easily and without breaking the
bank so in my opinion if you're being
fair to people and are producing
something worthwhile and not being over
restrictive they're 99% of the time
going to want to support that business
model or your product so that's a whole
lot about copyright in an open
environment like the internet where it's
very difficult to control things like
copyright but in any other situation
where things aren't freely open to
people on the internet for instance if
you're doing client work for someone or
if you're producing uh your own artwork
for a local gall if there's any exchange
or agreement in regards to copyright
just like the intellectual property tips
you want to make sure that you get it in
writing just make sure you have evidence
of any agreement that is made with any
restrictions necessary to protect both
parties right and responsibilities and
clarify obligations there are other
formal forms of protection which include
things like patents and trademarks
patents are sort of like intellectual
property for like an invention or a
devices function and a trademark is like
a protection of a logo OR or a visual
entity that's usually specifically
applied to the visual representation of
a company or a product both of these
things need to be applied for formally
so you can gain a trademark or a patent
for something but often it involves a
bit of spending money and things like
that so uh I'm not going to go into
details in that in this video but that's
more of a a larger scale thing anyway so
when you're at the point where you need
to invest in a patent or a trademark
you're probably uh managing a larger
something anyway and you'll be able to
have the money to spend on legal advice
and you won't need to look up free
YouTube videos now if I'm going to put
everything I've said in this video so
far and then just try and spit out a few
key points to keep in mind that are part
of my personal philosophy I would say
don't let this stuff scare you my
personal approach is use whatever you
want copyright protected or not in the
privacy of your own home to develop your
creativity and your skills but when it
comes to producing anything that you put
out there anything that you share let
alone monetize uh you want to make sure
you're creating original content or of
course you're gaining any licenses you
need to use to uh use any other
copyrighted content the other thing to
keep in mind is if you have ideas be
smart and play it safe and protect
yourself but don't hide in a shell
include people collaborate with people
it's great to let people know that you
want to give them 20% of the revenue for
this game for doing the music or maybe
go 50/50 with a coder and do the artwork
for a game it's great way to develop
your skills and develop healthy business
relationships and then also have
something of an experience in creating
an agreement that you both have to
protect each other's rights it can be a
really positive experience in the end
and it's just worth trying different
things but also playing it safe and if
in any doubt get advice sometimes it can
be free you can get free advice from
lawyers from time to time and if you
need to pay for a little bit of Vice
sometimes it can be worth a lot more
than you actually pay any lawyer to give
you that advice cuz you can save
yourself a lot of pain down the line so
that's it ladies and gentlemen for our
conversation today on copyright and
intellectual property I hope you enjoyed
what we talked about today and got
something useful out of it otherwise
thank you for joining me and until next
time I'll see you later thanks for
watching if you enjoyed this video
subscribe to my channel to see new
content every week check out more of my
stuff by clicking the annotations over
there if you want to support my work and
get a few goodies for yourself head over
to my store for archive ebooks and get
yourself something nice if you're
looking for a great place to collaborate
explore or share your own content head
over to newgrounds.com that's it for now
and until next time see you later